There is a powerful new club in the north-west of England but its most bankable players are probably unfamiliar, despite raking in hundreds of millions of pounds a year from fans.
Meet Boohoo, PrettyLittleThing and Missguided, the Manchester-based online companies threatening to take over fashion retailing with inexpensive, brash clothes that are more likely to have been inspired by a reality TV star’s clubbing outfit than the catwalk.
Last week, Boohoo bought a controlling stake in PrettyLittleThing, the startup founded by the sons of Boohoo’s co-founder, Mahmud Kamani. With PrettyLittleThing valued at only £5m thanks to an option clause dating back to Boohoo’s flotation prospectus in 2014, the deal was as much of a bargain for shareholders as the £8 clingy dresses its shoppers love.
“The deal provides Boohoo with a complementary brand at a really attractive valuation,” says Phil Adams, chief executive of GCA Altium, who advised Boohoo. The purchase gives Boohoo shareholders – who have seen the value of their holdings quadruple this year – a slice of one of the fastest-growing young fashion brands in the UK at the moment.
The driving force behind PrettyLittleThing is 28-year-old Umar Kamani, who started the brand with his brothers in 2012. Sales surged 400% to £17m in the 12 months to end of February 2016 as its target market of teenagers and twentysomethings snapped up edgy fashions created with so-called “influencers” like Lionel Richie’s 18-year-old model daughter, Sofia. Sales are expected to ratchet up by another 150% this year.
Online fashion aimed at young women is currently the sweet spot in a tough fashion market, because low prices keep wardrobe updates within reach of even the tightest budgets.
“The teenage wallet has its limitations,” explains Boohoo’s joint chief executive, Carol Kane. “We don’t have a high returns rate: our shoppers don’t want to tie up their money. If they are spending £20 on a dress they won’t spend £40 ordering two sizes. They don’t have that kind of money. It is quite different to the middle market.”
Kane adds that key to PrettyLittleThing’s success is the age of the founders: “Umar is from the same generation as his customers.” That means he knows his peers are glued permanently to their phones, scrolling through social networks. They want to be able to flick through a digital wardrobe packed with thousands of bodycon dresses, jumpsuits and thigh-high boots while they are at the bus stop, thinking about what they are going to wear on their next night out.
She describes the Boohoo brand, which has a broader clothing offering, as “more inclusive” than its younger, sister brand. “The Pretty Little Thing shopper is sassy, glamorous and body confident,” she says. “I would definitely say she is confident.”
While this wave of digital fashion businesses, which includes rivals such as Missguided and Public Desire, look like overnight success stories, they have generations of experience to draw on as the founders are typically scions of successful clothing importers based in the region. Mahmud Kamani’s father Abdullah, who escaped war-torn Kenya in the 60s to start a new life in England, started out selling handbags on a market stall but went on to become a successful high street clothing supplier. The family reaped £240m from the IPO in 2014.
“Online fashion retailers don’t have the legacy of stores to worry about,” says Boohoo chairman Peter Williams. “If they get traction with customers, as both Boohoo and Pretty Little Thing has done, they can grow very quickly.”
“Being able to source great product at a sensible price has been one of Boohoo’s great strengths,” he adds. “Celebrity trends can be interpreted very quickly and the stock turns [over] at a fantastic rate ... it’s a very dynamic model.”
Missguided is another Manchester-based brand enjoying breakneck growth. In the year to March, its chief executive, Nitin Passi, says sales increased by a third to £117m, and that the business is currently enjoying growth of more than 60%. Profits were down, though, as it invested in a new headquarters in Salford Quays and warehousing, and went on a hiring spree, recruiting 336 head office staff in the last 18 months.
“This enables us to scale the business,” explains Passi. “We are going after growth in the UK and internationally.”